Jesus said as recorded at Matthew 11:27:
“No one fully knows . . .
“the Father except the Son
and anyone to whom the Son
is willing to reveal him.”
This teaches us two things.
First, that it is possible
for us to know the Father fully,
and second, that Jesus is the key
to knowing Jehovah.
Jesus clearly identified his role
in revealing the Father.
On his last night here on earth,
he told his apostles
as recorded at John 14:6:
“I am the way and the truth and the life.
No one comes to the Father
except through me.”
Only through Jesus
can we truly know the Father
and have an approved relationship with Him.
Earlier, at the transfiguration,
Jehovah confirmed Jesus’ pivotal role
when he instructed
Peter, James, and John
to listen to Jesus.
For over a century,
“the faithful and discreet slave”
has provided a wide range of study aids
to help us learn about the life, ministry,
and teachings of Jesus Christ.
These gifts enrich our study of God’s Word.
They shed light on the world he lived in,
the places he walked,
the towns where he preached,
the landscapes he saw,
the food he ate,
and even the seasons
in which various events took place.
These printed publications
are more than just words on a page.
They illuminate Jesus’ personality
and reveal his qualities,
which mirror those of his heavenly Father.
We learn about Jesus’ compassion,
self-sacrifice,
humility, power,
boldness, courage,
and love.
More important,
focusing on Jesus’ teachings and example
draw us closer to the One who sent him.
Our meetings, assemblies, and conventions
also deepen our love and appreciation
for God’s Son.
In more recent years,
Jehovah’s organization has used videos
to reach the hearts
of all those attending our conventions.
But how can we continue
to help honest-hearted ones
to understand Jesus’ role
as King and High Priest
and to help them acquire
“the mind of Christ”?
Well, bringing events of Jesus’ ministry
to life on screen or on the printed page
is not without its challenges.
As you know,
the Governing Body
had those full-costume dramas
for years at conventions,
but never was Jesus depicted.
And you can understand the challenge.
Who’s going to play Jesus?
Can you imagine trying
to select brothers
in say 200-300 (or even more)
different places
to play the role of Jesus Christ?
But then finally,
‘For a Certainty God Made Him
Lord and Christ’ (Part I, Part II)
—we went ahead,
and the Governing Body approved it:
“Go ahead. Let’s have that.”
And it worked very well.
When you see Jesus
with the woman that had a flow of blood
and the tenderness shown in our video
of Jesus dealing with that woman
and her fear
and yet her confidence
that she could be healed by him
and the way Jesus treated her,
that conveyed something
that we would not always bring up
in our imagination.
So once we saw the reaction
from the brothers and sisters
—how their hearts were touched
by this presentation—
we could see
that this is a very effective way
to portray Jesus’ teachings.
What could boost your spirituality more
than actually seeing
the Scriptures come alive?
Now here is a very exciting announcement:
The Governing Body is pleased to announce
that a very special video series about Jesus
is currently being developed.
Work is under way to develop and produce
a new, live-action dramatic series
on Jesus Christ.
The title of the series is
The Good News According to Jesus.
This series will combine the strengths
of all our preceding research and study tools
with the power of the moving image
and will enable the viewer
to gain an even deeper understanding
of Jesus’ life and ministry,
which in turn increases
our knowledge of Jehovah.
Although other religious
and commercial institutions
have produced various films
on the life of Jesus,
these have often been tainted
by unscriptural views of Jesus,
or they have placed excessive emphasis
on violence.
And existing video productions
focus on one Bible book at a time
or only on specific episodes
of Jesus’ ministry on earth.
The Good News According to Jesus,
however, will show all the events
of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John
in the order in which they happened
and in as much of the rich detail
as current research
and Bible understanding will allow.
Often, a presentation
like the one you are about to see
is shown
after a feature-length drama is released.
Such behind-the-scenes videos
help us to understand and appreciate
various facets of the video-making process.
Today, however,
we are giving you a preview
—a first look—
at an upcoming convention project
that will take years to complete.
In view of the large scope of this project,
we encourage you
to make it a matter
of earnest prayer to Jehovah
and please support it
according to your circumstances.
Would you like see
what Episode One might look like?
To provide an advance impression
of the look and feel of an episode,
Audio/Video Services prepares storyboards.
We’re pleased to share with you now
an excerpt from an animated storyboard.
Assuming that he was
in the group traveling together,
they went a day’s journey
and then began to search for him
among the relatives and acquaintances.
But not finding him,
they returned to Jerusalem
and made a diligent search for him.
Well, after three days,
they found him in the temple,
sitting in the midst of the teachers
and listening to them
and asking them questions.
But all those listening to him
were in constant amazement
at his understanding and his answers.
Now when his parents saw him,
they were astounded.
Child, why did you treat us this way?
Here your father and I
have been frantically looking for you.
Why were you looking for me?
Did you not know that I must be
in the house of my Father?
However, they did not understand
what he was saying to them.
Then he went down with them
and returned to Nazareth,
and he continued subject to them.
Also, his mother carefully kept
all these sayings in her heart.
And Jesus went on progressing in wisdom
and in physical growth
and in favor with God and men.
The true light that gives light
to every sort of man
was about to come into the world.
Of course, this is not the final video.
Rather, it’s an example
of how the words on a page can come to life.
Preparing simple, basic drawings
to convey the idea of a video
is one of the early visual tools used
during the approval process.
The animatic review is a very early milestone
for the visual storytelling.
But how has the project been developed?
What direction has the Governing Body given
for bringing events
in Jesus’ life to the screen?
So first of all,
the Governing Body approved the concept
of producing a production like this.
But there were some questions, such as,
How do you do it?
So three options were given
to the Governing Body.
The first option
was for us just to have
a theatrical stage production
similar to what we’d already done.
The second set of options involved
having a narrator speaking
and just reading the sections of Scripture
and in the background to have acting
but not actually having Jesus speaking
or those involved with Jesus speaking.
And then finally, the third option
—which is, of course, the hardest
and involves a lot of work—
is to do a real-life drama.
So we were interested to see
how the Governing Body would feel about this.
And what a joyous time it was
to hear the brothers say:
“We want the best for the brotherhood.
“We want them to be able to see
“the power and impact of what Jesus taught.
Yes, we want the third option!”
So then we realized
that there’s a lot of work ahead.
It’s easy to think:
‘The inspired text is there.
What’s to write?’
But it’s not as simple
as just taking little, half-hour chunks
out of the four Gospel accounts
and throwing them
on a script and filming them.
Which Gospel account do you use?
Do you use Matthew’s account?
Mark’s? Luke’s?
So, very quickly we saw the need to lay each
of the four Gospel accounts side by side
and decide which account
—in every case, every event—
gives us the fullest picture,
the most details.
So even if you can’t say everything
that appears in all four accounts,
you use the one
to carry the bulk of the story,
and the others provide
the rest of the details
that we’ll actually see.
The brothers who help write the dramas
have a tremendous amount of work to do.
But then there are also those
who do the research
just to make sure little details are correct,
whether it be the shoes a person has on
or whether he even wears shoes.
When you show something on film,
you are committing yourself.
You are saying that this is the explanation
or, in some cases, the application.
It goes beyond illustration;
it’s the explanation.
It’s the way to understand what happened.
And that is what sticks
with people’s memories.
So it’s a huge responsibility
to get that right.
So our Research Department
already has a lot of information.
But doing something like this
is yet another step
down the path of being very, very difficult
because there are
a lot more questions that come up.
How are we going to depict the Devil?
How do you show Jesus walking on water?
What footwear was allowed in the Soreg?
And what’s a Soreg?
Research is pivotal in this.
So you make a decision about what to depict.
But then there are details when it comes
to not just telling it,
not just reading what happened,
but now you have to show what happened.
How do you do that?
If you take something that’s static,
like a piece of artwork
that’s well-researched with solid sources,
and now bring it to life,
then in many respects,
more research needs to go into this
so that everything is looked at
from various angles.
So let me explain the challenge
we have with John chapter 6.
If we look at Map 3B in the Appendix section,
just imagine we have the Sea of Galilee here.
Now, according to what it shows us,
we have Magadan here on this side
of the Sea of Galilee,
and up here we have Capernaum.
Now, according to what this tells us,
Jesus performed his miracle
across on this side of the Sea of Galilee,
and then the apostles traveled by boat
to this general area.
Of course, Jesus joined up with them
when he walked on the water.
So according to John chapter 6,
Jesus starts to teach the crowd
as he is walking along the seashore.
But by the end of John chapter 6,
we see that Jesus
is actually speaking at that time
here in Capernaum.
So the question comes up,
What part of the dialogue
was actually stated here
in the synagogue in Capernaum,
and what part was stated
along the seashore as he was walking along?
So we’ll have to do
some research into John chapter 6
and see where there is a good break
for us to realize what words
were actually said there in the synagogue.
That’s the challenge.
We need for the friends
to be able to watch this video series
and feel they’re actually there.
And what they are seeing
is as close to the way
it must have been
as we can possibly make it.
And the role of research
helps us to ensure that.
With scripts being developed and approved,
the production team continues work
with the visual look and feel of the series.
So when we found out
that the project involved
the entirety of Jesus’ ministry,
it was simply overwhelming.
Once we’ve read our script,
we go into a phase
where we start working with storyboards.
Storyboards are kind of like a first pass
at what this story might look like.
That’s compiled
into what’s called an animatic,
which is a type of video.
So you’ve got a narration,
you’ve got dialogue, and you’ve got music,
but it’s to these cartoon boards.
It’s great because it gets you prepared
so that on set,
the challenges don’t just pop up.
You can anticipate them.
Concept art is a communication tool
to help us to get all on the same page.
Concept art helps us
to get the mood of it, the lighting,
and to experience it maybe from a perspective
that we hadn’t thought of before.
The story of Jesus’ ministry
isn’t just dry, cold facts.
It’s actually human stories.
When we see how different people
responded and reacted to Jesus’ ministry
—how they were shaped
and molded by what they experienced—
that’s essentially that character’s arc.
We go in and say:
“OK, where does our character start?
How does he grow?
And where is he by the end of this series?”
By seeing his struggles,
seeing his challenges,
it makes that character more relatable.
As years of development passed,
the immense scope of this project
came into clear focus.
A natural question arose,
Where would we record it?
When we were doing the production of Jonah,
we used parts of southern California.
And we thought
that would be a very good location.
So that was proposed to the Governing Body,
and they said, “Thank you very much,
“but we would rather
that you use existing Bethel facilities
“that would be available
and that maybe are not being utilized
to their full potential.”
We worked with Worldwide Design/Construction,
and they provided a list
of some of the branches that had space.
And as we were doing so,
it came to our attention
that in Australasia,
the printery was about to be phased out.
At the end of 2015,
the printing work was moved to Japan.
The press was then put up for sale.
It sold about three years later.
So now we had this big warehouse space
—just what we needed for a studio.
We were just stunned
to think that such a project
could be accomplished here.
But I think we’ve also seen so much evidence
of Jehovah’s blessing on this project
that it’s very clear
it’s something he wants.
The temporary accommodations
here at the branch
were due for demolition,
and, I mean, like the bulldozers
were almost at the gate.
So we were able to stop those bulldozers
and, as a result,
we’re currently renovating those residences.
Jehovah’s hand
was definitely in that experience.
Without the stopping of that demolition,
we wouldn’t have had enough accommodations
to look after this project.
It was as if Jehovah
was dropping this option in our laps
with all the criteria
that we needed to do this project.
With the primary location selected,
Production Design helps take a concept
and make it a reality.
Our goal as Production Design
is to immerse the audience in the story.
If they have that sense,
now they’re paying attention
to what’s being said on screen
—what they can learn,
what they can benefit from it.
It’s one thing to design something,
but then to execute that design
is another thing.
Even like with the throne room,
this actually is too much work.
We have to simplify it.
Do we need to show three walls?
Can we just get away with building two walls
and have the same effect,
the same production quality?
Usually,
we design the set, we build a set,
we film the set,
and then we tear the set down.
But this project is unique
in that we’re not doing that.
These buildings, these structures,
that we’re going to be filming
are going to last for years,
and so they had to be built that way.
So how do we combine
modern-day building standards to make it last
but still make it look
like an old, ancient, building
that was built 2,000 years ago?
We were looking for a certain type of finish
—a concrete finish.
Through a website,
we found there was a company
over in Perth that was able to achieve this.
And after calling them,
we found out they’re brothers.
And those brothers
have been able to come over and help us
with their expertise
to get the right type of finish.
The support from all those
under the Australasia branch territory
has been faith-strengthening.
So one of the biggest needs
we probably have at the moment
would be auditioning.
We absolutely need
more volunteers for acting.
It’s a unique and new form of sacred service.
It’s something that probably most
never thought they would ever do
or be asked to do,
but there is definitely a need.
The more that can make themselves available
through this auditioning process
would allow us to have
the right people in the roles.
One fundamental principle that underlies
any good acting is empathy.
It’s something
that we all learn as Christians.
It’s not about showing
the behavior in big ways.
It’s about understanding
who the character is,
and then it exudes naturally.
Jehovah’s organization will always train us,
and Jehovah’s spirit will make us ready
for the task that’s ahead of us.
It’s simple training,
but it’s definitely designed to help somebody
to get comfortable in front of a camera,
performing in front of many people
and being able to relax
—being able to be themselves.
To see our brothers and sisters
offering themselves,
putting themselves out in this way,
is wonderful.
When this project was first discussed,
it felt like it was so far into the future
and almost an impossibility.
It was so big in scope.
But now,
it’s actually happening
and you see Jehovah’s blessing
on the planning, on the construction,
on the people.
Will there be challenges?
Oh yeah, guaranteed.
But if Jehovah wants something done,
that’s what happens.
We have things at the right time,
and that’s what we’ve done.
We’ve advanced now
to where we’re able to do it
in such a wonderful way for the whole world.
We are working with the best words
that have ever been spoken on this planet
—words that have power and meaning.
This is such a huge endeavor,
and yet Jehovah has shown us
his direction all along.
It needs to be done.
With this project being blessed by Jehovah,
that’s what’s going to happen.
The genuine good news according to Jesus
—that’s what we’re going to have.
It’s clear that Jehovah is blessing
this tremendous undertaking.
The Good News According to Jesus
will help all of us
to teach the truth about Jesus,
and it will help us
to deepen our own appreciation
for his loving sacrifice
in behalf of all mankind.
Jesus said as recorded at John 14:13, 14:
“Whatever you ask in my name,
“I will do this,
“so that the Father may be glorified
“in connection with the Son.
“If you ask anything in my name,
I will do it.”
Thus, our sincere prayer
is that this multi-year project
will be a grand success
and will result in the salvation
of many more true disciples,
all to the praise of Jehovah’s great name.
Thank you all
for your continued prayers and support.
Thank you for encouraging yet others
to support this project with their prayers,
talents, time, and assets.
Thank you to our dear brothers
and sisters in Australasia as well
for your willing spirit.
All of us eagerly await what the future holds
for this good work ahead of us.
The prologue to the book
“Come Be My Follower”  states this:
“Jehovah sent
his only-begotten Son to the earth
“to give his life as a ransom. . . .
“In addition to dying for us,
“that Son showed us how to live.
“With each step he took,
“he kept his integrity
“and brought joy to his Father’s heart.
“Jesus also showed us
how to be like his Father.
“The ways and the will of the Father
“found perfect expression
in the words and deeds of the Son.”
If we want to draw closer to Jehovah
and know him fully,
we must continue to learn more about his Son.
May this new video series
help us to grow in love for the Son
and our loving Father, Jehovah.